Newsletters: add 310 (2024-07-05) (#1768)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-07-05-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #310'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/07/05/
name: 2024-07-05-newsletter
slug: 2024-07-05-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Adding a BOLT11 invoice field for blinded paths:** Elle Mouton
  [posted][mouton b11b] to Delving Bitcoin a proposed BLIP specification
  for an optional field that could be added to [BOLT11][] invoices to
  communicate a [blinded path][topic rv routing] for paying the
  receiver's node.  For example, businessperson Bob wants to receive a
  payment from customer Alice but does not want to disclose the identity
  of his node or of the peers with whom he shares channels.  He
  generates a blinded path starting a few hops out from his node and
  adds that to an otherwise-standard BOLT11 invoice that he gives Alice.

>   If Alice uses software that is able to parse that invoice and route a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If Alice uses software that can parse that invoice and route a
```

  payment using blinded paths, she can pay Bob.

>   If Alice uses software which doesn't support the BLIP, she will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If Alice uses software that doesn't support the BLIP, she will be
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #310'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/07/05/
name: 2024-07-05-newsletter
slug: 2024-07-05-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter summarizes the disclosure of 10 vulnerabilities
affecting old versions of Bitcoin Core and describes a proposal to allow
BOLT11 invoices to include blinded paths.  Also included are our regular
sections announcing new releases and release candidates and summarizing
notable changes to popular Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## News

- **Disclosure of vulnerabilities affecting Bitcoin Core versions before 0.21.0:**
  Antoine Poinsot [posted][poinsot disclose] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing

>   list a link to an [announcement][bcco announce] of 10 vulnerabilites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  list a link to an [announcement][bcco announce] of 10 vulnerabilities
```

    0.10, a node requests each of its peers send it block headers from
    their _best blockchain_ (valid blockchain with the most
    proof-of-work).  A known problem with this approach is that a
    malicious peer could spam the node with a large number of bogus
    headers belonging to low-difficulty blocks (e.g. difficulty-1),
    which are trivial to create with modern ASIC mining equipment.
    Bitcoin Core initially addressed this problem by only accepting
    headers on a chain that matched _checkpoints_ hardcoded into Bitcoin
    Core.  The last checkpoint, though from 2014,<!-- block 295,000 -->
    had a moderately high difficulty by modern standards, so it would
    require significant effort to create bogus headers starting from it.
    However, a code change incorporated in Bitcoin Core 0.12 allowed the
    node to begin accepting low-difficulty headers into memory,
    potentially allowing an attacker to fill memory with bogus headers.
    This could lead to the node crashing, which could result in the loss
    of funds for users of contract protocols (such as LN).  Cory Fields
    responsibly disclosed the vulnerability and it was fixed in version
    0.15.0.

>   - [CPU-wasting DoS due to malformed requests][]: before Bitcoin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [CPU-wasting DoS due to malformed requests][]: before Bitcoin Core
```

  confirmation before considering the channel usable. This change improves
  interoperability with other Lightning implementations that support this, such
  as LDK, and aligns with the [BOLT2][] specification.

- [LDK #3125][] introduces support for encoding and parsing `HeldHtlcAvailable`
  and `ReleaseHeldHtlc` messages required by the upcoming implementation of
  [async payments][topic async payments] protocol. It also adds [onion message][topic onion messages]
  payloads to these messages, and an `AsyncPaymentsMessageHandler` trait for
  `OnionMessenger`.

- [BIPs #1610][] adds [BIP379][] with a specification for [Miniscript][topic
  miniscript], a language that compiles to Bitcoin Script but which allows
  composition, templating, and definitive analysis. See [Newsletter #304][news304
  miniscript] for an earlier reference to this BIP.

- [BIPs #1540][] adds BIPs [328][bip328], [390][bip390], and [373][bip373] with a specification for a
  [MuSig2][topic musig] derivation scheme for aggregate keys (328), output
  script [descriptors][topic descriptors] (390), and [PSBT][topic psbt] fields
  to allow MuSig2 data to be included in a PSBT of any version (373). MuSig2 is

>   a protocol for aggregating public keys and signatures for the [Schnorr digital

Reviewer 3: Optech tends to use lowercase “schnorr signature”.

```suggestion
  a protocol for aggregating public keys and signatures for the [schnorr digital
```
